In cases where console log statement is not enough and you need deeper insights, you want to really
dig into your application,
in such cases you can use the Chrome developer tools. There under sources, you find your source code.
Now the place where you find it can differ,
you should find it here under webpack in this .folder,
there is a source file and in there you find your actual Typescript files even, thanks to a concept called
source maps.
Now here, we could dive into the recipes folder and through the recipes.page.ts file and you
can now set a breakpoint here in the Chrome dev tools.
Now this means that when I now reload this page, code execution will actually stop
as you can see and it stops in this line where I place the breakpoint and there, you can now inspect what's
inside of this,
so what does this refer to and what's inside my recipe service.
Ok and
there we have this array of two recipes and what is the result of getRecipes which is therefore stored
in these recipes?
Well let's move on to the next line, so that this line gets executed. You can move through the code with
the controls down there and step into, what
now? Step into the getAllRecipes
function, if I click that, we are now in getAllRecipes and now we're in the service and can inspect that too.
Step out, goes back and goes into the new line here.
Now we load the recipes and we can inspect our recipes here and we see OK, we got the schnitzel and so
on.
Now once you got the information, you want you can press the play button here and code execution continues.
Now we can again go here, delete that and go back and oh here again, we notice this never executes again,
otherwise you would have paused because the breakpoint is still there.
So this is the extra insight we can get and with breakpoints, you can of course inspect everything in
your code here.
Now the Chrome developer tools by the way are very powerful and therefore in the last lecture of this
module, you'll find additional resources where you can dive way deeper into these dev tools to get the most
out of them,
I'm only showing the basics here in this module, I'll not dive into every single feature you can use.
So this is how we can use breakpoints and console log,
what else can we do,
how else could we debug our application?